Hey welcome back! So, in this video I'm going to introduce SendMessageUpwards.
We're going to be introducing SendMessageUpwards,
creating a message for the helicopter
call, and making the HELO respond to that
message. You can read all about
SendMessageUpwards on Unity's docs, right there if you wish.
Meanwhile, I'm just going to talk about the general architecture. So, try to keep this as kind of
real as possible. I see the clear area as
a concept in the player's head, if you
like. It's attached to the player, and
it's centered about the player but it's
a concept about how much space the
helicopter needs to land. And what I want
to happen is when the Clear Area Script detects this clear area, I want it to send a message
up the Hierarchy to anything above, i.e. the player in this case, and then, the
player will decide to call the
helicopter. So, we're going to connect the
Player Script to the helicopter, over in
the Inspector, saying that represents the
radio, his radio link to the helicopter.
And we're going to move the helicopter,
which is currently sitting in the scene,
a long way out. We'll move it 9,000
units out in Z.  For example, maybe minus 9,000 in Z.
And why 9,000? Well, the helicopter travels at a speed of about 100 knots, so
if we look at 100 knots in meters per second, it's about 50 meters a second. So, if we have
50 meters a second times the 60
seconds per minute times the 3
minutes, that we said the helicopter
should take, then we get a result I think
of 9,000. There you go! So, I'm going to put the helicopter out at minus 9,000
Z, and then, I'm going to arrange it to
fly at 50 meters a second. Let's just
do that straight away; let's put the
helicopter on a helipad. So, I'm going to make a 3D
Object Cube. I'm going to put it at an X position of 0, a Y position of 1,000,
quite high in the air 3,000 feet in the air, but it won't
matter... Oh, well that's a bit too high isn't it. No, Ok then maybe 100 Y position. Let's just check.
As long as your mountains, none of them are more than 100 high, they probably aren't,
to be honest. So, just have a check around, make sure that 100 is high
enough to get over your mountains. That's just not enough to get over all of mine.
Maybe go 500. What I'm trying to do here is strike a balance between the helicopter
coming in too high and too low, that it
actually has a risk of going through the
mountains. I'm going to do a very simple
animation. It's going to come low over
the landing area and do a vertical landing,
which is not very normal, but it's the safest,
messing around with the animator and
learning things that we've already seen.
So, let's put the helicopter out at minus
9,000. So, this cube is the
helipad, so let's call it a HeliPad. Ah, make it a one-word. Fantastic! And we better change
the scale of this helipad to 10 by 1 by
10 meters, something like that. And let's
go grab the Helicopter Prefab. Now, is the
helicopter a prefab yet? No, I think it
probably ought to be. Let's prefab the
helicopter, delete it from the scene, and
then, pop the prefab on the pad. Oh, look at that! It's facing the land area. It's got
a nice little shadow, it's even sitting on the helipad, if you just drag the prefab straight on. Cool! So, there it is,
9 kilometers away, sitting on a
helipad, just waiting to be called. So, we
don't have a method for calling the
helicopter yet. We may as well make that
ready, so the helicopter can have a public
method, returning nothing called Call.
And what I'm going to do in this public
method is, just take the very
script, the stuff we had before in the
Update, and put it in the Call.
Delete everything in Update. And there's one more thing we need; we only want to
respond to Call if not called. Then, we
respond to Call, otherwise we just don't do anything.
Fine! So, the helicopter has a cool sound, it has a concept of whether it's called or not, it
has an audioSource on it, it has a 2D
audioSource, I think, and a 3D audioSource, doesn't it.
One of the audioSources is, so that
we can hear it played back to us
it's radio messages. You could argue that
ought to be on us or on our radio or
something, but look, there's a million ways of doing things. And the other audioSource is,
for the noise of the helicopter. Fantastic! So, the other thing we want to do when
this helicopter gets called, is we want it to start hurtling at 50 meters a
second. So, I'm going to getrigidbody. Now, this is not a Unity command, this is
a keyboard shortcut that I have, that types
private Rigidbody rigidBody, and then,
it also writes the Start method. Anyway,
what you need to be doing is making sure
you have access to a Rigidbody. Good old
Unity 5 makes us do this all the
time, which is why I've made a keyboard shortcut, and then, you have Rigidbody found in the
start there. And now, we can say rigidBody.velocity = new Vector3 (0,0,50f);
float, and that will then, bring the thing from minus 9,000
meters across to us or roughly our landing position, in a reasonable amount
of time. We'll fine tune what happens when it gets into the play space later, but
this should take 5 minutes to get to
us and it will only be called once.
So that's cool, better check this helicopter
has a Rigidbody on it, so let's go to
the Helicopter Prefab. It doesn't have a
Rigidbody, so let's add a Rigidbody and
take off gravity and take the helicopter
and leave it down there. We don't need to
child it to the helipad, it's a separate
object to the helipad, and there he is,
the helicopter is ready to be called, but how are we going to call it? So, let's use
this BroadcastMessage business, right
now. So, here's the Clear Area Script, I'll
leave the timeSinceLastTrigger as public for the moment, because it's quite helpful to be able to see it
for debugging. But first thing I want to do is move this found clear area, from here to the player.
I want a method on the player, and it's going to be a message, so by a message it's just a
method on the player. So, OnFindClearArea () {}
Now, what's going to call that? Well, it's the
broadcast that's going to call that, that's how it works. So, OnFindClearArea
why don't we, just for now, take this Debug.Log statement... ("Found clear area in player');
just to make sure that it works. So, you've just got a method that can get calls from
somewhere else. It doesn't need to be
public, and we can say ("Found clear area in player");
Right! Now, clear area just needs to do a broadcast, or send rather message
upwards, and just provide the method name ("OnFindClearArea"); Now, to be clear on
what that's going to do... excuse the double clear. It's going to look in every ancestor
object of this Clear Area Script and
look for a method called OnFindClearArea,
as specified by this string. And it's just going to call it, so let's see what
happens if we do this. I'm going to go to the Player, Play Mode, select the clear area, and it's already
worked,  "Found clear area in player". Now, let's look at the helicopter, where is the
helicopter right now? Ok, it hasn't got its speed. Why not?  Well, let's go look.
The player logs out to say he's found a clear area, but he is not connected to the helicopter
and never calls the helicopter's Call Script. So, we better make ourselves a public Helicopter helicopter;
I think it's reasonable to connect the
helicopter to the player, because he is
connected to the player by his radio. Ok, let's go drag that in now. So, we'll go
find the player. Let's do the standard stuff,
connect up the helicopter, so there is
the helicopter connected in there, and we
don't need this Respawn thing
visible anymore, so we're going to make that private. I like to
group private and public variables, like
that. So, now we can simply go helicopter.Call ();
Ok, let's see if it works. So, the clear area system, broadcasts a
message up to the player; the helicopter gets called. Now, let's just check the helicopter. There he is, on
his way. And is that going to take about
5 minutes to get there? Yeah, I think it
probably is. There it goes, there was the helipad, that little white dot over on the right just
down here. There it goes with its two
sound zones, one of them is irrelevant
because it's a 2D sound. And it's going
to spend about 5 minutes getting over
to the play space there, and it's Z position
is decreasing. Cool! So, we have successfully
called the helicopter, which is pretty
useful. So, that was almost forced. I just
wanted to show you a SendMessageUpwards and how that SendMessageUpwards
actually works. It's pretty handy, when
you're Hierarchy gets complicated.
You don't want to be broadcasting to every object in the game, in fact, there
isn't a method to broadcast to everything. You could make all your message-able
objects under one parent object, so you
could perhaps put all of this stuff
under one parent object so you can
broadcast up to more things. But it's a
good idea not to be broadcasting
messages every frame, but in this
instance, it's absolutely fine and it's just
another way of getting this clear area
to naturally send a message up to the
player. We could have a lot of
other things hanging off the player, and they could all broadcast messages too. And then,
it reads nicely inside the player,
because it just says: Well, when the
player has found a clear area, what is he going to do? We're going to do this stuff. We're also, in the future
going to do things like deploy a flare and maybe some other things.
Start spawning zombies but that doesn't
happen here, but let's make a note. No harm ever in putting comments in to remind yourself what your doing next.
So that's it! Hope that makes sense to
you, and it's relatively simple. This
broadcast area upwards is a handy little
tool! And I shall see you in the next video!